# Wednesday 13 Nov 2024

## Before

### Macros

In a lisp you can read everything before you eval. With my macro syntax that
won't be the case. Some macros will be defined at runtime and we won't know how
many expressions they take as arguments until then.

### Package

``` haskell
Package nana:examples@0.0.1
```

`Package` is kinda tricky. I could make it fixed length but then every expression
in the file would need to sit inside a list. Or `Package` could just set some
global variable and everything else could read that global and register
themselves in the `Package`. But I don't like either of those.

Because it's top level maybe we can say it's a different kind of macro? It reads
till the end of the file. You only get one top level macro per file maybe? But
that doesn't feel too elegant either.

So what if all macros get passed the remaining expressions and return a new list
of expressions... but that feels a bit weird. I feel like people would end up
writing `StartMath` and `StopMath` macros.

Maybe `Package` reading until the end of the file isn't so inelegant. It's kind of
like varargs for functions. Normal macros will be defined like:

``` haskell
Macro "World" [name definitions]
    ...
```

And we can see from the param list that it takes two parameters. So we pop two
from the unevaluated expression list.

``` haskell
Macro "Package" [& definitions]
    ...
```

But `Package` consumes the whole list just like varargs.

Another distinction could be that builtin macros get the whole list, while user
defined macros dont? But maybe that's not so fair.


Lets say we defined `Match` in this way:

``` haskell
Macro "Match" [conditions & matches]
    ...
```

It lets us drop a level of parens (around the matches) and it goes no further than the end of `Func`.

``` haskell
Func num-to-txt [num u8] string
  Match[mod(num 3) mod(num 5)]
    [0 0] "Fizzbuzz"
    [0 _] "Fizz"
    [_ 0] "Buzz"
    [_ _] n
```

But it doesn't compose well. Like if you wanted to use `Match` again inside the "Fizz" branch it would eat up the two remaining matches. What you're trying to say is:

``` haskell
Func num-to-txt [num u8] string
  Match [mod(num 3) mod(num 5)]
    [0 0] "Fizzbuzz"
    [0 _] Match (tuesday?)
            true  "Yo"
            false "Nah"
    [_ 0] "Buzz"
    [_ _] n
```

But what you accidentally said was:

``` haskell
Func num-to-txt [num u8] string
  Match [mod(num 3) mod(num 5)]
    [0 0] "Fizzbuzz"
    [0 _] Match (tuesday?)
            true  "Yo"
            false "Nah"
            [_ 0] "Buzz"
            [_ _] n
```

I guess you can handle it with `do`.

``` haskell
Func num-to-txt [num u8] string
  Match [mod(num 3) mod(num 5)]
    [0 0] "Fizzbuzz"
    [0 _] do(Match (tuesday?)
                true  "Yo"
                false "Nah")
    [_ 0] "Buzz"
    [_ _] n
```

But that looks a bit clumsy. I guess the normal way would be to allow for explicit blocks with parens or braces.

``` haskell
Func num-to-txt [num u8] string
  Match [mod(num 3) mod(num 5)]
    [0 0] "Fizzbuzz"
    [0 _] (Match (tuesday?)
            true  "Yo"
            false "Nah")
    [_ 0] "Buzz"
    [_ _] n
```

``` haskell
Func num-to-txt [num u8] string
  Match [mod(num 3) mod(num 5)]
    [0 0] "Fizzbuzz"
    [0 _] {Match (tuesday?)
            true  "Yo"
            false "Nah"}
    [_ 0] "Buzz"
    [_ _] n
```

I guess either of them are fine. One can be added later if needed.

- [x] Update fizzbuzz with this in mind

Having updated fizzbuzz I'm not sure that I like it. It means that when you're adding `Match` you need to treat it differently to something like `Let` or `For`. They've got a fixed number of args so they just work. You're likely to use them more often so you get into a pattern of it. Then `Match` trips you up.

It might be a better user experience to have `Package` be a totally unique entry. Or for builtins to be special.

Or what if package just isn't different at all. It defines a package. The fact that everything else belongs to it is up to the file reader. It's already doing some kind of package management stuff.

So then how to do implement this incredibly basic version of package:

``` haskell
# Somewhere in the standard library
Record package [
    name    string
]

Macro "Package" [name]
  Let [str-name string(name)]
    Quote package(Unquote str-name)
```

It would be equally valid for people to write

``` haskell
Package nana:examples@0.0.1
```

as

``` haskell
package("nana:examples@0.0.1")
```

But the reasons I like the use of the macro are:

1. Visually it shows readers of the code that `Package` is a language level
feature. Not part of the application domain model.

2. At some point the code may be able to refer to say `nana:example/foo()` in
order to call a function from that package. Having the name defined as a name
and referenced as a name is symetrical. If it was defined with a string and
later referenced with a name they'd be disjointed.
