# Tuesday 12 Nov 2024

## Before

### Why restart nana

I've become frustraited with the js/ts ecosystem. Node and JCO seem to want different js module systems.

Also js/ts as a language. Interfaces not being checkable at runtime makes it hard to build on top of them. Not having tagged variants means you end up rolling your own. It all feels inelegant.

### The plan

I'm going to:

1. Follow the [figwheel instructions](https://figwheel.org/#quick-usage) for setting up a project.
2. Set up some kind of autotest suite
3. Get a wasm component hello world build pipeline going
4. Grab a library, or write a simple parser combinator
5. Parse fizzbuzz written in my new nana syntax

## During

- [ ] What's so good about rebel readline?
- I miss the structured editing of org mode in markdown
- [ ] What will the json/edn equivilent of nana look like?
- I'm trying to deal with any warnings straight away. Like SLF4J.
- Also deleting any unnessisary example code, like the `deps.edn` alias.
- And avoiding abreviations. So `build-repl` uses full flag names when starting figwheel.
- CLJS is refreshingly low drama 
- `npm install -g @bytecodealliance/jco`
- Google closure has it's own module system. Componentize expects `import` `export` style.
- Even using `import` across files doesn't seem to work with componentize`
- [ ] It looks like `jco componentize` takes a disable flag that can create a wasi-less component!
- I've got a basic hello world wasm working. No closure.
- Hopefully by taking a working example and adding it tot he compiled google closure  file we can access their modules
    - `const math = goog.require('goog.math');` from [ES6 modules and Closure interop](https://github.com/google/closure-compiler/wiki/ES6-modules-and-Closure-interop)
    - That didn't work. `goog` not defined.
- The solution is much easier just `example.core.foo()`!
- The bare component thing using `--disable all` doesn't work. It leaves poll around unfortunately.
    - I raised [a ticket](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/jco/issues/523)
    - Until that's fixed I'm going to ignore bare components as a goal
- Now I want a single command that'll compile my cljs all the way to a running component